FOOD
I choose this word because food means really a lot for me. For someone it is just something that keeps us alive and makes us survive in this world. This word is providing energy, minerals, vitamins and we cannot live without food, but for me it is passion. Cooking also offers a range of therapeutic benefits for our mind and body. Before making a really good dish, I like to go shopping for fresh vegetables or fruits from local farmers and my favorite flowers are also herbs. Because for example we can smell rosemary and then also use it in any dish for the taste and also, we can use it as a decoration for cake. Normal flowers are for me just a big waste. Food is also symphony of flavors, textures, and aromas. Everyone has different taste, but we will always find the right dish for our mouth.
 Next reason why I love food is because, this word is universal language for friends, family, and love. Food is transcending barriers of language and in geography to connect people on a fundamental level. Whether it is the spicy curries of India, or the delicate sushi of Japan, each dish tells a story of heritage and tradition passed by generations. Food is making cultural identity, rituals, celebrations and connecting people from around in the world. In the Czech Republic we eat lot of meat, potatoes, and onion. Czech cuisine it is not my favorite, but it will always remind me my home and my country. Italian and Spanish cuisine will always remind me sea, hot weather, and summer with lot of fun. 
Food is also a canvas for creativity, inviting chefs and home cooks alike to experiment with flavors and techniques to create culinary masterpieces. From the precision of fine dining to the comfort of homemade favorites, cooking is both an art and a science, requiring skill, intuition, and passion. The act of preparing and sharing a meal brings people together, fostering bonds and creating good memories from our lives.
Food can be also more than just a hobby. For me cooking and baking are my favorites things to do alone or with my friends. It can be source of joy, experimentation, or self-expression. It is offering endless opportunities for growth, learning, and self-discovery yourself. Cooking or baking can be an art form, and the kitchen is your studio. With a palette of different ingredients. We have the freedom to experiment with flavors, textures, and techniques to create dishes that reflect your personal style and taste. Whether you're following a recipe or improvising with what you have on hand, cooking allows you to unleash your creativity and turn simple ingredients into culinary masterpieces.
